---
layout: post
title: Here Are Some Apps
author: evan
categories: [dev]
tagline: 'Some projects I have been working on'
---

<p>I have a good amount of WinRT experience. So, I decided to make some Windows 8 &amp; Windows Phone applications to have a presence in the app store.</p>

<p>I have been creating some tools to help me be better handle some productivity challenges. I have used the <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mnemonic_major_system">Major System</a> to help remember numbers. Its a simple mapping of phonetics to numbers so that a few words can encode a number set. This technique can be extended by creating a mnemonic image relating these words. Creating these mnemonics requires a bit of work up front, and so I created a tools for <a href="{{ site.recollection-wp }}">Windows Phone</a>, <a href="{{ site.recollection-win8}}">Windows 8</a>, and the <a href="{{ site.recollection-web }}">web</a> to help remeber numbers.</p>

<p>Least last year the <a href="http://pghtechfest.com/">Pittsburgh TechFest</a> website exposed an <A href="http://pghtechfest.com/api">API</a> of scheduled and speakers, encouraging developers to make use of it. I created some reusable code in Portable Class Libraries (PCL) and used them to create a <a href="{{ site.pgh_techfest-wp }}">Windows Phone</a> and <a href="{{ site.pgh_techfest-win8 }}">Windows 8</a> app. The <a href="{{ site.pgh_techfest-code }}">code</a> is available as a demonstration of code reuse on Microsoft Platforms.</p>

<p>Check out the <a href="/PGHTechFest">Pittsburgh TechFest app</a> for Windows Phone or Windows 8 for a demonstration of code reuse on different Microsoft platforms.  <a href="https://github.com/kindasimple/PGHTechFest">The code</a> is Free!</p>